Task: 1

Q)	Difference between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2?

For every TCP connection there is only one request and response. But HTTP/1.1 supports connection reuse	Uses multiplexing, over a single TCP connection. It is done using streams and it also provide feature called server push. 
Introduces a warning header field to carry additional information about status of message(24 status code) and its error reporting is quicker and efficient	Headers and status code of HTTP remains same.
It uses digest authentication and NTML authentication	Security concern from previous version will continue to be seen in HTTP/2. However it is better equipped to deal with them 
It has additional header like cache-control	Does not change much in terms of caching with server push. If the client find resource present already in cache it cancel the push stream
Text Based protocol that is in the readable format	It is a binary protocol



Q)HTTP Version History?


1991	0.9	Online Protocol
1996	1.0	Building Extensibility  
1997	1.1	Standardized Protocol
2015	2.0	Protocol for greater performance
Draft(2020)	3.0	HTTP over UIC


Q)Difference between BrowserJS and NodeJS?

JS is a programming language that is used for writing scripts on the website	Node JS is a java script runtime environment
It can be run only in browser	Node JS can be run-outside browser
It is basically used on client side	It is basically used on server side
JS is cable enough to add HTML and play with DOM	Node JS does not have capability to add HTML tags
JS can run in any browser engine like JSCore in Safari, SpiderMonkey in FireFox.	Node JS can only run in v8 engine of google chrome


Q)What happens when an URL is typed on address-bar of the browser?

1.	Browser checks cache for DNS entry to find he corresponding IP address of the website. It looks for the following cache, If not found in one I continues checking to next until found. - Browser cache, -OS Cache, Router Cache, ISP Cache.
2.	If not found in cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find IP address. The request are send in small pockets that continues information content of request & IP  address.
3.	Browser initiates the TCP connection with server using Synchronize(SYN) and acknowledge (ACK) message.
4.	Browser sends a HTTP request to server. GET or POST request.
5.	Server on the host computer handles the request and sends back response in some format like JSON,XML and HTML.
6.	Server sends out an HTTP response along with status response.
7.	Browser display HTML content.
8.	Finally done.


hi